Add more sections to Scala 3 macro reflection tutorial (#1999)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/scala3-macros/tutorial/reflection.md

## How to use the API

> Accessing this API needs an import that depends the current `Quotes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessing this API needs an import that depends on the current `Quotes`, which are implicitly in scope.
```

Reviewer: Maybe this needs a bit more explanation.  This usage pattern is somewhat obvious to me, but it might not to newcomers. What about:

"The reflection API is defined in the type `Quotes`.  The actual instance depends on the current scope, in which quotes or quoted pattern matching is used. Hence, every macro method receives `Quotes` as an additional argument. Since `Quotes` is contextual, to access it members we either need to name the parameter, or summon it. The following definition of the standard library provides the canonical way of accessing it."

> The following definition

Reviewer: The text is somewhat fragmented here. Should it be something like "The following code example illustrates / gives the definition for / ..."?

Each type is also a module with some _static-ish_ methods, for example in the [`TypeReprModule`](https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule$TypeReprModule.html) we can find the method `TypeRepr.of[T]` which will create an instance of `Type` containing `T`.

## Relation with Expr/Type

> Expressions `Expr[T]` can be seen as wrapper around a `Term` that knows statically the type of the term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expressions `Expr[T]` can be seen as wrappers around a `Term`, where `T` is the statically known type of the term.
```

> Bellow we use the `asTerm` extension method to transform the expression into a term.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below we use the extension method  `asTerm` to transform the expression into a term.
```

This extension method is only available after importing `quotes.reflect.asTerm`.
Then we use `asExprOf[Int]` to transform the term back into `Expr[Int]`.

> This operation will fail if the term does not have provided type or if the term is not a valued expression.

Reviewer: Maybe remind users what a `valued` expression is?

Author: It was a typo. It should be `valid expression`.

Author: I added an example

Reviewer: Great, thanks!

```scala
def f(x: Expr[Int])(using Quotes): Expr[Int] =
  import quotes.reflect.*
  val tree: Term = x.asTerm
  val expr: Expr[Int] = tree.asExprOf[Int]
  expr
```

> Similarly, we can also a `Type[T]` as a wrapper over a `TypeRepr` that knows statically its type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, we can also see `Type[T]` as a wrapper over `TypeRepr`, with `T` being the statically known type.
```

To get a `TypeRepr` we use `TypeRepr.of[X]` which expects a given `Type[X]` in scope (similar to `Type.of[X]`).
We can also transform it back into a `Type[?]` using the `asType` method.

> As the type of `Type[?]` is not statically know we need to name it with an existential type to use it, can be done using the `'[t]` pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the type of `Type[?]` is not statically know we need to name it with an existential type to use it. This can be achieved using a `'[t]` pattern.
```

```scala
def g[T: Type](using Quotes) =
  import quotes.reflect.*
  val tpe: TypeRepr = TypeRepr.of[T]
  tpe.asType match
    case '[t] => '{ val x: t = ${...} }
  ...
```

## Macro API design

> It will be often useful to create helper methods or extractors that to perform some common logic of your macros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will be often useful to create helper methods or extractors that perform some common logic of your macros.
```

> The simples methods will be those that only mention `Expr`, `Type` and `Quotes` in their signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest methods will be those that only mention `Expr`, `Type`, and `Quotes` in their signature.
```

Internally they may use reflection but this will not be seen at the use site of the method.

```scala
def f(x: Expr[Int])(using Quotes): Expr[Int] =
  import quotes.reflect.*
  ...
```

In some cases it is inevitable to require some methods that work on `Tree`s or other types in `quotes.reflect`.
For these cases, the best is to follow the following example of method signatures.

A method that takes a `quotes.reflect.Term` parameter
```scala
def f(using Quotes)(term: quotes.reflect.Term): String =
  import quotes.reflect.*
  ...
```

An extension method for a `quotes.reflect.Term` returning a `quotes.reflect.Tree`
```scala
extension (using Quotes)(term: quotes.reflect.Term)
  def g: quotes.reflect.Tree = ...
```

An extractor that matches on `quotes.reflect.Term`s.
```scala
object MyExtractor:
  def unapply(using Quotes)(x: quotes.reflect.Term) =
    ...
    Some(y)
```

> **Avoid saving the `Quotes` context in a field.**
> `Quotes` in fields inevitably make its use harder by hitting errors involving `Quotes` with different paths.
>
> Usually these patterns have been seen in code that uses the Scala 2 ways to define extension methods or contextual unapplies.

> > Now that we have `given` parameters that can be added before other parameters, all these old workarounds are no needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Now that we have `given` parameters that can be added before other parameters, all these old workarounds are not needed anymore.
```

> > The new abstraction make it simpler on the definition site, use site and also have a better performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The new abstraction make it simpler on the definition site, use site, and also have a better performance.
```

Reviewer: What are these peformance gains here?

Author: no object instantiations for extension methods.

## Debugging

### Runtime checks

> Unlike `Expr`, it is not possible to guaranty statically that the generated code will be well-formed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike `Expr`, with `Term` it is not possible to guaranty statically that the generated code will be well-formed.
```

Hence these checks will be done at runtime (i.e. compile-time when the macro expands).

It is recommended to enable the `-Xcheck-macros` flag while developing macros or on the tests for the macro.
This flag will enable extra runtime checks that will try to find ill-formed trees or types as soon as they are created.

There is also the `-Ycheck:all` flag that checks all compiler invariants for tree well-formedness.
These check will usually fail with an assertion error.

### Printing the trees

> The `toString` of types in `quotes.reflect` is no great for debugging as they show the internal representation rather than the `quotes.reflect` representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `toString` methods of types in `quotes.reflect` are not great for debugging as they show the internal representation rather than the `quotes.reflect` representation.
```

In many cases these are similar but they may lead the debugging process astray.

Hence, `quotes.reflect.Printers` provide a set of useful printers for debugging.
Notably the `TreeStructure`, `TypeReprStructure` and `ConstantStructure` can be quite useful.

> These will print the three structure following loosely the extractors that would be needed to match it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These will print the tree structure following loosely the extractors that would be needed to match it.
```

```scala
val tree: Tree = ...
println(tree.show(using Printer.TreeStructure))
```

One of the most useful places where this can be added is at the end of a pattern match on a `Tree`.

```scala
tree match
  case Ident(_) =>
  case Select(_, _) =>
  ...
  case _ =>
    throw new MatchError(tree.show(using Printer.TreeStructure))
```

> This way if a case is missed the error will report a familiar structure that can be copy pasted to start fixing the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, if a case is missed the error will report a familiar structure that can be copy-pasted to start fixing the issue.
```

Each type is also a module with some _static-ish_ methods, for example in the [`TypeReprModule`](https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule$TypeReprModule.html) we can find the method `TypeRepr.of[T]` which will create an instance of `Type` containing `T`.

## Relation with Expr/Type

Expressions `Expr[T]` can be seen as wrappers around a `Term`, where `T` is the statically known type of the term.
Below we use the extension method `asTerm` to transform the expression into a term.
This extension method is only available after importing `quotes.reflect.asTerm`.
Then we use `asExprOf[Int]` to transform the term back into `Expr[Int]`.

> This operation will fail if the term does not have provided type or if the term is not a valid expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation will fail if the term does not have the provided type (here `Int`) or if the term is not a valid expression.
```
